A new hotel requires a website to allow potential guests to make a room reservation by specifying the type of room e.g., single, double, and the dates of booking. The hotel has many room types available, each with a room-type name, number of guests and additional facility information. Each room in the hotel has a unique room number and is of one specific type.
If the potential guest has registered with the website, in the past, their previously stored details e.g., contact number, credit card details, can be retrieved to speed up the booking process. If the potential guest has not previously registered, they must create an account as a new customer before making a booking.
Each reservation at the hotel is allocated a unique reservation code. Prior to the date of the booking(s), the customer can use the web site to edit or cancel the reservation. Amendments to the booking(s) can include changing the dates of the booking, the number of guests in each room etc. During the booking process the customer can printout their reservation.
When the guest(s) arrive at the hotel the reservation number is used by the receptionist to find the reservation to check them in. At the end of their stay at the hotel, the receptionist checks the guests out. It is during this stage that the hotel system takes their payment through the credit card payment system and an invoice may be requested by the guest.
Monthly reports are prepared by the system, which may be viewed on request by the Hotel Manager.
